." vim: set syn=nroff
.TH openssl-generate-certificates 1 "March 2018" "openssl-generate-certificates v1.2.1"

.SH NAME
openssl-generate-certificates - Automated, self-signed certificate generation for client/server applications.

.SH SYNOPSIS
openssl-generate-certificates [-v]
                              [-i \fI\,ip\fR]
                              [-j \fI\,subject\fR]
                              [-p \fI\,prefix\fR]
                              [-s \fI\,password\fR]
                              -h \fI\,hostname\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fI\,openssl-generate-certificates\fR generates self-signed certificates for client/server applications. The generated set of assets encompasses:
.RS
.IP \fI\,ca-key.pem\fR
The certification authority's private key.
.IP \fI\,ca-cert.pem\fR
The certification authority's certificate.
.IP \fI\,server-key.pem\fR
The server's private key.
.IP \fI\,server-cert.pem\fR
The server certificate.
.IP \fI\,client-key.pem\fR
The client's private key.
.IP \fI\,client-cert.pem\fR
The client certificate.
.RE

\fI\,openssl-generate-certificates\fR was created to improve automated generation of client/server key pairs and comes equiped with a set of options to automate certificate generation.

For convenience and future reference \fI\,openssl-generate-certificates\fR also saves the client and server extension files containing respective certificate configuration.

All generated assets are saved to the current working directory.

.SH PREREQUISITES
\fI\,openssl-generate-certificates\fR requires the following programs:

.RS
.IP openssl .2i
.RE

Please make sure they are installed on your system.

.SH OPTIONS
-h \fI\,hostname\fR, --host \fI\,hostname\fR
.RS
Specify the hostname or IP address of the server.
.RE

-i \fI\,ip\fR, --ip \fI\,ip\fR
.RS
Specify additional ip(s) to associate with \fI\,hostname\fR. Default: 127.0.0.1
.RE

-j \fI\,subject\fR, --subject \fI\,subject\fR
.RS
Specify the subject string to use when generating the ca certificate.
.RE

-p \fI\,prefix\fR, --prefix \fI\,prefix\fR
.RS
Specify a prefix for output filenames. All generated assets will be prefixed with the given string.
.RE

-s \fI\,password\fR, --secret \fI\,password\fR
.RS
Specify the password with which to encrypt the key-signing key.
.RE

-v, --verbose
.RS
Print verbose output.
.RE

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to <https://github.com/haensl/openssl-certgen/issues>

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Hans-Peter Dietz <h.p.dietz@gmail.com>


